# Fiscal sponsorship agreement for NumFOCUS and open source projects

The documents contained in this repository are used to establish a formal
relationship between NumFOCUS and open source projects, where NumFOCUS acts as
a "Fiscal Sponsor" for the projects. This means that NumFOCUS will act as a
financial point of contact for the projects and will collect all donations,
which are therefore tax deductible under US law.  In return, the projects
commit to only spending these funds in compliance with NumFOCUS' mission in
support of open source scientific computing, education and reproducible
research (the specific legal terms are indicated in the document body).

For more information on the concept of fiscal sponsorship under non-profit
organizations, see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fiscal_sponsorship.

## Fiscal oversight team

An open source project that wishes to operate under the NumFOCUS umbrella will
need to select a small "fiscal oversight team" comprised of 3 or 5 individuals
related to the project.  These individuals will sign this agreement and will
act as the point of contact between NumFOCUS and the broader community and the
active leadership structure of the project.

It is important to clarify the scope of this "fiscal oversight team": it is NOT
a "board of directors" or otherwise leadership/guidance group for the project.
Each project should maintain its own decision-making process, following its
existing community and practices.  The fiscal team is *strictly* the group of
people who will have to approve requests to NumFOCUS for money, and who take
the responsibility of saying "we think this expenditure is OK, given the
NumFOCUS charter and the project's open source status".  Specific details on
the interaction between NumFOCUS and this team, as well as the guidelines on
conflicts of interest that the team must respect, are provided in the full
fiscal sponsorship agreement.

